doc: align ansible/helm migration guides with go (#4640)
operator-framework/operator-sdk: website/content/en/docs/building-operators/ansible/migration.md

---
link: Migrating Projects from pre-v1.0.0 to the latest release
linkTitle: Migrating from pre-v1.0.0 to latest
weight: 200

> description: Instructions for migrating an Ansible-based project built prior to `v1.0.0` (`0.19.x+`) to use the Kubebuilder-style layout which is the default layout adopted by SDK since the `1.0.0` release.

Reviewer: The 0.19.x only applies to Go projects. Really, the Go migration guide should read `Migrating from pre-v0.19.0 to latest`
```suggestion
description: Instructions for migrating an Ansible-based project built prior to `v1.0.0` to use a Kubebuilder-style.
```

---

## Overview

> The v1.0 release improves upon prior `operator-sdk` releases with a new project structure and CLI, each of which enhances project extensibility and customizability. These design changes are influenced by [`kubebuilder`](https://book.kubebuilder.io/). For further information behind this motivation, check [the differences between Kubebuilder and Operator-SDK][what-are-the-the-differences-between-kubebuilder-and-operator-sdk].

Reviewer: Once again, I don't see a reason to link to the differences between operator-sdk and kubebuilder are here. If anything, I'd want to see a link of the similarities.

```suggestion
The v1.0 release improves upon prior `operator-sdk` releases with a new project structure and CLI, each of which enhances project extensibility and customizability. These design changes are influenced by [`kubebuilder`](https://book.kubebuilder.io/).
```

> The motivation for the new layout is to [integrate Kubebuilder and Operator SDK][integration-doc] based projects. This enables Kubebuilder based projects to use the features provided by Operator SDK. For further information behind this motivation, check [the differences between Kubebuilder and Operator-SDK][what-are-the-the-differences-between-kubebuilder-and-operator-sdk].

Reviewer: If I'm migrating an operator-sdk project, why do I care about the integration with kubebuilder?
```suggestion
The v1.0 release improves upon prior `operator-sdk` releases with a new project structure and CLI, each of which enhances project extensibility and customizability. These design changes are influenced by [`kubebuilder`](https://book.kubebuilder.io/).
```

Author: The point here is to describe why it changes. I think you are right it can be better. 
However, we might need to share the link in the FAQ. Let's see if you like the proposed solution.

### What is new

> Projects are now scaffold using:

Reviewer: The previous wording is correct: projects are not scaffolded using kustomize, a Makefile, etc, they _use_ kustomize, a Makefile, etc.
```suggestion
Scaffolded projects now use:
```

- [kustomize][kustomize] to manage Kubernetes resources needed to deploy your operator
- A `Makefile` with helpful targets for build, test, and deployment, and to give you flexibility to tailor things to your project's needs
- Updated metrics configuration using [kube-auth-proxy][kube-auth-proxy], a `--metrics-addr` flag, and [kustomize][kustomize]-based deployment of a Kubernetes `Service` and prometheus operator `ServiceMonitor`

> - A preliminary support for plugins. For more info see the [extensible CLI and scaffolding plugins design document][plugins-phase1-design-doc]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [CLI plugins][plugins-phase1-design-doc] for those interested in maximum project customization.
```

Author: This text is == kb which is the silly suggestion for that which imo shows more accurate. 
Before 1.5 and 2 plugins impl can we really provide `maximum project customization`?

> - A PROJECT file which stores more information about the resources in use, to enable plugins make useful decisions while scaffolding

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A `PROJECT` configuration file file to store information about GVKs, plugins, and help the CLI make decisions
```

> - Liveness and Readiness probes using [`healthz.Ping`][healthz-ping].

Reviewer: This is a minor feature not really worth mentioning, especially since they are not configurable.
```suggestion
```

## How to migrate

> The easy migration path is to create a new project from the scratch and let the tool scaffold the files properly and then,
> just replace with your customizations and implementations. Following an example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The easy migration path is to initialize a new project, re-recreate APIs, then copy pre-v1.0.0 configuration files into the new project.
```

Author: -  I'd like to not use `pre-v1.0.0`. Also, it is described above anyway.  
- Then, people need to `let the tool scaffold the files properly` and not only ` re-recreate APIs`. 
-  Also, I am not sure if I agree with `configuration files into the new project.` It is about to copy the full implementation as well. Or the Ansible playbooks and roles are not a kind of implementation too? 

Also, I do not change this one, just copy and past from GO.

Reviewer: >I'd like to not use `pre-v1.0.0`. Also, it is described above anyway

`pre-v1.0.0` is more informative than `just replace with your customizations and implementations`. Described where?

>Then, people need to `let the tool scaffold the files properly` and not only `re-recreate APIs`

What else do they need to do?

>Also, I am not sure if I agree with configuration files into the new project. It is about to copy the full implementation as well. Or the Ansible playbooks and roles are not a kind of implementation too

This is just supposed to be a general description of what needs doing. The specifics are discussed below.

> ## Migration Steps
> 
> The most straightforward migration path is to:
> 1. Create a new project from scratch to let `operator-sdk` scaffold the new project.
> 2. Copy your existing code and configuration into the new project structure.
> 
> **Note:** It is recommended that you have your project upgraded to the latest SDK release version (0.19.x+) before following the steps in this guide to migrate to new layout. However, see that might work from previous versions as well. In this case, if you found any issue which is not covered here then, check the previous [Migration Guides][migration-doc] which might help out.

Reviewer: This section is redundant, since the `How to migrate` section is concise and says the same thing. The note should be moved up to the `Overview` section.
```suggestion

```

Author: I am not sure too. See that it needs to be inside after the ## How to migrate otherwise make no sense.
However, I think we can add as a subdomain of `## How to migrate`

Reviewer: I'd like to see this section removed and the note moved up.

- [kustomize][kustomize] to manage Kubernetes resources needed to deploy your operator
- A `Makefile` with helpful targets for build, test, and deployment, and to give you flexibility to tailor things to your project's needs
- Updated metrics configuration using [kube-auth-proxy][kube-auth-proxy], a `--metrics-addr` flag, and [kustomize][kustomize]-based deployment of a Kubernetes `Service` and prometheus operator `ServiceMonitor`

> - A preliminary support for plugins. For more info see the [extensible CLI and scaffolding plugins design document][plugins-phase1-design-doc]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Preliminary support for CLI plugins. For more info see the [plugins design document][plugins-phase1-design-doc]
```
